---
tag: mitre/T1036.006
---

**Masquerading: Space after Filename**

Link: [T1036.006 - Masquerading: Space after Filename](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/006)

Parent : [[Linux, macOS]]


# Description

Adversaries can hide a program's true filetype by changing the extension of a file. With certain file types (specifically this does not work with .app extensions), appending a space to the end of a filename will change how the file is processed by the operating system.

For example, if there is a Mach-O executable file called <code>evil.bin</code>, when it is double clicked by a user, it will launch Terminal.app and execute. If this file is renamed to <code>evil.txt</code>, then when double clicked by a user, it will launch with the default text editing application (not executing the binary). However, if the file is renamed to <code>evil.txt </code> (note the space at the end), then when double clicked by a user, the true file type is determined by the OS and handled appropriately and the binary will be executed (Citation: Mac Backdoors are back).

Adversaries can use this feature to trick users into double clicking benign-looking files of any format and ultimately executing something malicious.

# Tactics


[[It's not common for spaces to be at the end of filenames]]

[[ so this is something that can easily be checked with file monitoring. From the user's perspective though]]

[[ this is very hard to notice from within the Finder.app or on the command-line in Terminal.app. Processes executed from binaries containing non-standard extensions in the filename are suspicious.]]


# Notes:

## Linux

Use Tool Template here

## Windows

Use Tool Template here