---
tag: mitre/T1036.005
---

**Masquerading: Match Legitimate Name or Location**

Link: [T1036.005 - Masquerading: Match Legitimate Name or Location](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/005)

Parent : [[Containers, Linux, Windows, macOS]]


# Description

Adversaries may match or approximate the name or location of legitimate files or resources when naming/placing them. This is done for the sake of evading defenses and observation. This may be done by placing an executable in a commonly trusted directory (ex: under System32) or giving it the name of a legitimate, trusted program (ex: svchost.exe). In containerized environments, this may also be done by creating a resource in a namespace that matches the naming convention of a container pod or cluster. Alternatively, a file or container image name given may be a close approximation to legitimate programs/images or something innocuous.

Adversaries may also use the same icon of the file they are trying to mimic.

# Tactics


[[Collect file hashes; file names that do not match their expected hash are suspect. Perform file monitoring; files with known names but in unusual locations are suspect. Likewise]]

[[ files that are modified outside of an update or patch are suspect.

If file names are mismatched between the file name on disk and that of the binary's PE metadata]]

[[ this is a likely indicator that a binary was renamed after it was compiled. Collecting and comparing disk and resource filenames for binaries by looking to see if the InternalName]]

[[ OriginalFilename]]

[[ and/or ProductName match what is expected could provide useful leads]]

[[ but may not always be indicative of malicious activity. (Citation: Elastic Masquerade Ball) Do not focus on the possible names a file could have]]

[[ but instead on the command-line arguments that are known to be used and are distinct because it will have a better rate of detection.(Citation: Twitter ItsReallyNick Masquerading Update)

In containerized environments]]

[[ use image IDs and layer hashes to compare images instead of relying only on their names.(Citation: Docker Images) Monitor for the unexpected creation of new resources within your cluster in Kubernetes]]

[[ especially those created by atypical users.]]


# Notes:

## Linux

Use Tool Template here

## Windows

Use Tool Template here