---
tag: mitre/T1046
---

**Network Service Discovery**

Link: [T1046 - Network Service Discovery](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1046)

Parent : [[Containers, IaaS, Linux, Network, Windows, macOS]]


# Description

Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of services running on remote hosts and local network infrastructure devices, including those that may be vulnerable to remote software exploitation. Common methods to acquire this information include port and/or vulnerability scans using tools that are brought onto a system.(Citation: CISA AR21-126A FIVEHANDS May 2021)   

Within cloud environments, adversaries may attempt to discover services running on other cloud hosts. Additionally, if the cloud environment is connected to a on-premises environment, adversaries may be able to identify services running on non-cloud systems as well.

Within macOS environments, adversaries may use the native Bonjour application to discover services running on other macOS hosts within a network. The Bonjour mDNSResponder daemon automatically registers and advertises a host’s registered services on the network. For example, adversaries can use a mDNS query (such as <code>dns-sd -B _ssh._tcp .</code>) to find other systems broadcasting the ssh service.(Citation: apple doco bonjour description)(Citation: macOS APT Activity Bradley)

# Tactics


[[System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation]]

[[ but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities]]

[[ such as Lateral Movement]]

[[ based on the information obtained.

Normal]]

[[ benign system and network events from legitimate remote service scanning may be uncommon]]

[[ depending on the environment and how they are used. Legitimate open port and vulnerability scanning may be conducted within the environment and will need to be deconflicted with any detection capabilities developed. Network intrusion detection systems can also be used to identify scanning activity. Monitor for process use of the networks and inspect intra-network flows to detect port scans.]]


# Notes:

## Linux

Use Tool Template here

## Windows

Use Tool Template here