---
tag: mitre/T1069.002
---

**Permission Groups Discovery: Domain Groups**

Link: [T1069.002 - Permission Groups Discovery: Domain Groups](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/002)

Parent : [[Linux, Windows, macOS]]


# Description

Adversaries may attempt to find domain-level groups and permission settings. The knowledge of domain-level permission groups can help adversaries determine which groups exist and which users belong to a particular group. Adversaries may use this information to determine which users have elevated permissions, such as domain administrators.

Commands such as <code>net group /domain</code> of the [Net](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0039) utility,  <code>dscacheutil -q group</code> on macOS, and <code>ldapsearch</code> on Linux can list domain-level groups.

# Tactics


[[System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation]]

[[ but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities]]

[[ such as Lateral Movement]]

[[ based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as [Windows Management Instrumentation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047) and [PowerShell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/001).]]


# Notes:

## Linux

Use Tool Template here

## Windows

Use Tool Template here