---
tag: mitre/T1136.001
---

**Create Account: Local Account**

Link: [T1136.001 - Create Account: Local Account](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136/001)

Parent : [[Linux, Network, Windows, macOS]]


# Description

Adversaries may create a local account to maintain access to victim systems. Local accounts are those configured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration on a single system or service. With a sufficient level of access, the <code>net user /add</code> command can be used to create a local account. On macOS systems the <code>dscl -create</code> command can be used to create a local account. Local accounts may also be added to network devices, often via common [Network Device CLI](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/008) commands such as <code>username</code>.(Citation: cisco_username_cmd)

Such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

# Tactics


[[Monitor for processes and command-line parameters associated with local account creation]]

[[ such as <code>net user /add</code> ]]

[[ <code>useradd</code> ]]

[[ and <code>dscl -create</code> . Collect data on account creation within a network. Event ID 4720 is generated when a user account is created on a Windows system. (Citation: Microsoft User Creation Event) Perform regular audits of local system accounts to detect suspicious accounts that may have been created by an adversary. For network infrastructure devices]]

[[ collect AAA logging to monitor for account creations.]]


# Notes:

## Linux

Use Tool Template here

## Windows

Use Tool Template here