---
tag: mitre/T1136
---

**Create Account**

Link: [T1136 - Create Account](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136)

Parent : [[Azure AD, Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Network, Office 365, Windows, macOS]]


# Description

Adversaries may create an account to maintain access to victim systems. With a sufficient level of access, creating such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

Accounts may be created on the local system or within a domain or cloud tenant. In cloud environments, adversaries may create accounts that only have access to specific services, which can reduce the chance of detection.

# Tactics


[[Monitor for processes and command-line parameters associated with account creation]]

[[ such as <code>net user</code> or <code>useradd</code>. Collect data on account creation within a network. Event ID 4720 is generated when a user account is created on a Windows system and domain controller. (Citation: Microsoft User Creation Event) Perform regular audits of domain and local system accounts to detect suspicious accounts that may have been created by an adversary.

Collect usage logs from cloud administrator accounts to identify unusual activity in the creation of new accounts and assignment of roles to those accounts. Monitor for accounts assigned to admin roles that go over a certain threshold of known admins.]]


# Notes:

## Linux

Use Tool Template here

## Windows

Use Tool Template here